Common Core State Standards — English Language Arts — Grades 11-12
Source: corestandards.org. Edit this file in admin to expand.

Reading: Literature
RL.11-12.1  Cite strong and thorough textual evidence to support analysis of what the text says explicitly as well as inferences drawn, including determining where the text leaves matters uncertain.
RL.11-12.2  Determine two or more themes or central ideas of a text and analyze their development over the course of the text, including how they interact and build on one another.
RL.11-12.3  Analyze the impact of the author's choices regarding how to develop and relate elements of a story or drama.
RL.11-12.4  Determine the meaning of words and phrases as they are used in the text, including figurative and connotative meanings; analyze the impact of specific word choices on meaning and tone, including words with multiple meanings or language that is particularly fresh, engaging, or beautiful.
RL.11-12.5  Analyze how an author's choices concerning how to structure specific parts of a text contribute to its overall structure and meaning as well as its aesthetic impact.
RL.11-12.7  Analyze multiple interpretations of a story, drama, or poem, evaluating how each version interprets the source text.
RL.11-12.9  Demonstrate knowledge of eighteenth-, nineteenth- and early-twentieth-century foundational works of American literature.

Writing
W.11-12.1  Write arguments to support claims in an analysis of substantive topics or texts, using valid reasoning and relevant and sufficient evidence.
W.11-12.2  Write informative/explanatory texts to examine and convey complex ideas, concepts, and information clearly and accurately.
W.11-12.9  Draw evidence from literary or informational texts to support analysis, reflection, and research.

Speaking and Listening
SL.11-12.1  Initiate and participate effectively in a range of collaborative discussions with diverse partners on grades 11-12 topics, texts, and issues.
SL.11-12.2  Integrate multiple sources of information presented in diverse formats and media in order to make informed decisions and solve problems, evaluating the credibility and accuracy of each source.

Language
L.11-12.5  Demonstrate understanding of figurative language, word relationships, and nuances in word meanings.
